i mean one of the things we actually do
is as a fund is we share some of our
carry with all of our founders so all of
our founders actually get some of our
caring which makes them a part owner of
the fund and actually a very leader of
everyone else and it's just a way of
sending the message that it's not
management versus shareholders it's not
founders versus investors wow we are all
in this together this is a journey
hopefully a successful
five six ten fifteen year journey to
build transformative companies there's
going to be ups there's gonna be downs
it's never a straight line there's
always as they call it the messy middle
and i think that's the the message that
we send it's the message we send by
being a sort of a part of that what you
just described from the get-go with
whatever's needed product strategy etc
and having sort of that one team message
welcome to minute leaders just sit back
relax and learn from the leaders of
today it's a journey each one is
different unique inspiring let's get
started
[Music]
this episode is powered by j ventures a
community driven vc fund in silicon
valley in partnership with lomitek and
sponsored by homeward ventures hippo
insurance opposed hillel stanford leap
and birthright excel
welcome to 20 minute leaders we're in
the venture capital world and today we
meet robert cohen managing partner of
benson oak ventures an early stage vc
fund based in israel focused on b2c
digital smb and all things related to
the passion economy what it dubs passion
ware
ben sinok has deployed capital across
europe the united states and israel for
20 years and robert enjoys a deep
understanding of the technology market
for consumers and small businesses
including operational experience in
building global brands and developing
and scaling business models including
one of the most successful venture
capital investments in consumer security
avg
a dual us israeli citizen robert is
originally from philadelphia spent 18
years in prague before moving to israel
almost a decade ago
robert cohen welcome to 20 milliliters
thank you great to be here thank you so
much
i'm in a beautiful office the promo
office is one of the portfolio companies
for benson oak we are the managing
partner fascinating journey amazing fun
focusing on b2c and b2 smb in the israel
ecosystem i think out of
maybe a hundred vcs that i got to speak
with this is the first time i get to
speak with somebody or the crazy ones
exactly and then so we'll dive into the
craziness in a second but start by
telling you a little bit a little bit
about yourself and your your own
personal journey leading to us sitting
here today in roma
yeah uh well it's great to be here as i
said i've listened to a number of your
podcasts and really enjoyed it so i've
lived in israel almost 10 years now
about nine years i lived before that in
prague for 18 years and i'm american
originally from philadelphia proud
philadelphia sports fan and i moved to
prague for six weeks and i stayed 18
years and i was in the mid-90s right
after the transformation from communism
to capitalism and i was part of benson
oak at that time which was this local
investment banking boutique and then in
the early 2000s i had this
again crazy idea that we should start
investing and so we stumbled into a
great deal and i say that honestly we
stumbled into avg the anti-virus company
in the early 2000s and in prague in
prague it's a in burnout it's uh bernard
is two hours east of prague this small
little town it's a lot of tech there and
they had done something crazy in the
game keep using that we're crazy but i
guess the word fits especially when
you're in israel in the 90s they gave
software away for free which now today
seems commonplace but at the time was
unheard of so when we
stumbled across avg they had 25 million
free users
and a management team that you know 100
sure what to do with that so we got
involved we actually ended up buying the
entire company again these are wow
different days back then
and my partner and i were involved
helping management we brought in other
investors intel capital ta associates
and then nine years later i had a great
opportunity to go back in as part of
management
and with a basically a mandate to help
the ceo with strategy and do
acquisitions and enable us to go public
and so i ended up doing five deals in 12
months and two of them were in israel so
that brought me to israel first time
professionally i've been here as a as a
kid i went to college came here every
year for vacation but this is my first
professional
uh opportunity to come to israel and was
coming here so often because i was
integrating 150 israelis we bought our
mobile team here we bought our platform
ended up renting a place here was here
very often my kids were much younger
and we then ended up on the verge of
going public and it was christmas day
2011 and i was sitting on the beach my
whole family was there it was 25 degrees
great weather flying back to prague the
next day looked at our phone and saw it
at -5 in prague drinking wine outside
i'm like what are we doing let's just
come here you know and take a year off
and come here so we said we'll do that
we said okay a year doesn't make sense
we'll do two years
and that was nine years ago that was
nine years ago yeah and um and yeah fell
in love with the place i always was in
love with israel but you know for me as
a someone who's passionate about
investing in startups it just made sense
to
to be here and the rest is almost
history still here so was your
investment in avg really your entrance
to investing in startups and being a
part of this ecosystem of hyper growth
and trying to see if you can make an
impact with a small management team just
described it perfectly that was exactly
what it was yeah and so how did that how
does that you know looking at what
you're doing now how does that passion
transition into your your work today so
one of the things that we actually
i think the biggest value at avg was
this was a team of 20 people in this
little town in brno and they had
accidentally fell into this big market
and we kept saying there's no reason a
small company in brno cannot be a global
leader now that's not something you ever
have to say in israel but back in those
days in
2004 2005 and in czech you did have to
say that and eventually we brought in a
team that thought like that one of the
amazing things about israel is that
mindset is there from from the get-go
right we're by definition thinking we
can be a global leader right in startups
here and so i think bringing that exp
and bringing that experience from
actually seeing it happen
in a unusual situation accompanying brno
becoming a global leader and then coming
here and seeing it in person and seeing
these amazing
these amazing entrepreneurs who have
amazing ideas but also the ability to
scale beyond
you know it fits first of all what i
enjoy to do and it also fits the
skill set we that i've developed from
from b to c and even b to smb avg is
considered a big consumer brand but it's
not known half of our revenue came from
smbs at the time
and so you know one thing led to another
and started investing and actually it's
what brought us to eventually to promo
as one of our first investments when we
got to we got to israel tell me a little
bit about the high level strategy of b2c
or beta smb and and then specifically
within the israel ecosystem which is not
not a common occurrence yeah to either
be the company that is doing b2c in
israel or a con or a vc that is
investing and and has a strategy behind
this specific vertical yeah so our
specific strategy is to
invest in b to c b to smb what i call
passionware which is a term that we've
dubbed around the tools and services
that drive the passion economy
and that's both on the infrastructure
side enabling anybody to start scale and
grow a business and then also on the
distribution side and of course the
world has changed in the last forget the
last 10 years even the last five years
in terms of smbs from shopify all the
tools from amazon to really you could be
anywhere you can punch above your weight
and so
so the reason we put those those
together would be to see smb and
passionware is they all start from
very similar beginnings in terms of
coming up with an idea coming up with
being able to build something very
quickly and thanks to the tools we have
today being able to get a punch above
your weight reach a global audience and
scale very quickly and most importantly
to have a very light footprint i think
that's there's a lot of corporate
products that try to
dumb themselves down into the consumer
world and consumers whether you're an
smb or a consumer you want something
that's easy to use intuitive and that's
where the entrepreneurs of today who are
focused on consumer and smb and so we
focus
our investments anywhere from early
stage to let's say post-product stage
and really help our companies and we
only invest in things that we understand
so by definition if we can't add value
we don't invest i mean we have to add
value i'm happy if someone else does it
all but we have to in order to
understand something to invest in we
have to be able to add value and that's
specifically in the area of product
which again doesn't mean coding doesn't
mean designing but being a mirror to
entrepreneurs in terms of how they're
thinking about products having very
specific ideas on where we think things
can really scale and then helping with
business models uh market experience
with marketplace experience with premium
model from abg experience with sas
models and then helping the organization
build especially for first-time founders
where you're doing so many different
things just helping from helping
design options to how to scale the teams
helping with hiring all the things that
can can basically delay the growth is
from very early stage so that's right
that's our product i always like to talk
about the benzodia product because it's
not just investing here's some money
show up for quarterly board meetings
it's invest add value wherever we can
different founders need different things
help with those specific areas and then
when we see things are working we like
to double down or even triple down as
the case may be and that means not just
you know go raise another round from
someone else run around new york tel
aviv or ever raise the money and we'll
do our provided it means we'll actually
lead the next round and then that makes
it much easier for the entrepreneur to
to raise the rest when somebody leads
more people follow so a number of our
companies we've done that we will invest
early double down and even potentially
triple down and then of course when
companies get their series being
and beyond then that's when we hope
other people will come in and do much
more so i'd love to hear some examples
of specifically with vincent okan and
how you've been working with some
specific companies in your portfolio
before that why is it irregular that i'm
sitting next to somebody in the israel
ecosystem that is that is really excited
about b2c or passion aware i love to say
this term now keep it being a
why why is it why is it not common why
didn't i mean something like this before
it's a good question i think um i mean
it's part of the way israel has
developed i mean first of all his
israeli ecosystem started with what's
called deep tech b2b i mean that was
just the
what people understood better that was
where the early exits came from a lot of
early exits then turned into any people
putting money back into the ecosystem
and so when it was cyber
or a lot of these b2b things that's just
where it started and i think also you
know i'm totally generalizing as we
often do but a lot of israeli startups
in the let's say the 90s early 2000s or
later they built to a certain level and
their desire was to sell right that was
there you built a great product get some
great clients and then you maybe sell 70
80 90. there's nothing wrong with that
first time founder bank some good check
go for the next one that's fine but to
really do b2c and smb it's harder to do
that you're really your aspiration from
the get-go is to build something big you
know there's there's of course examples
where facebook will swoop in and
interrupt a journey because you're doing
something that bothers them but most b
to c and smb companies are building
something much bigger that can scale up
and i think what's changed there is you
had companies like wix
fiverr and then most recently monday.com
uh similar web a lot of these companies
even walked me that started from an smb
mindset also in some cases moved to
corporate but even now like etoro and
other companies that lemonade that have
a consumer mindset and their mindset is
not just b to c and b disciplines we're
going to build a big global brand and
that's what excites me um i want to
invest in things that can big they can
conquer the world
and and go for those big games so what
are some examples from your own
portfolio where where you've been
following you know your your
entrepreneurs working with them to to to
reach those smaller heights so where we
are now promo.com is a good it's a good
one i know um you will hopefully have
one uh with the ceo and founder tom
moore but this is an amazing story of a
company that started as b2c yeah um
built actually a user base around the
world hundreds of millions of eyeballs
wasn't obvious how to monetize that took
that secret sauce and
i use the word creative genius to
describe tom and when you meet him
you'll see it's not those are not just
words and basically turned that secret
sauce of a b2c platform and what he had
been able to enable users to create
stuff and turned it into
uh promo which became basically
basically invented a new market which
was around video marketing for smbs 2016
video was just starting it was very
difficult for
smbs or anyone to create videos you know
you had to print out some tutorial you
didn't have the budget you had to do
drag and drop you had to do this with
one video and you couldn't change it you
were done yeah and promo we did a deal
with get images and promo basically
was able to create a market which has
been replicated by others now and now
we're moving beyond that which is
enabling smbs to really promote
themselves right it's not just about the
video it's about the promotion and so
this company went very quickly from zero
to
um tens of millions of dollars of annual
revenue and again inventing a new park
new market around a different way of
thinking instead of okay here's a better
way to make a video we're actually going
to make the video for you and that's
what promo has done and now if you're an
smb you don't have the time to make the
video you just want the video and now i
get to the good stuff which is promote
my business and that
i think
what i think that promo unleashed is
what we see across you know i call promo
a passion aware of business because at
the end of the day i'm not in the
business of msb i'm making videos i'm
not even in the business of doing ads
i'm in the business of scaling my
business getting users and generating
revenue the videos the ads all the other
things that go into today's business
from analytics to intercom to everything
else those are just tools that enable me
to scale and those are the exciting
things i think around this you know what
we call passion where shopify is the
great example shopify is there and
enables people to to grow their business
so that's something i think israeli
companies are now
seeing and scaling much faster and for
almost you know one of the best examples
if not the best that i've seen and so is
it common to speak to somebody who's the
lead investor and company of one of the
rounds and be so involved in the day to
day of the company and be so involved
with the ceo and and be really in the
end of this strategy and and
understanding really where the company
is headed
um it's it's becoming more not common
but it's there are more examples of it
uh i think you know andrew's horowitz
doesn't do it to the level we did but
they built an entire organization the us
around helping helping founders and i
think that's really become part and
parcel of the whole
vc ecosystem and how we evolve right vcs
are not just about it can't just be
about money there's as we know so much
money
money's become the commodity the value
add has become the thing that
differentiates so there's different ways
of adding value you know our ways is a
specific way we we don't invest in 30
companies we wouldn't necessarily do
what we do we invest in a very small
number of companies and some companies
seem to help here maybe just opening a
rolodex or just having the benefit of
experience some companies need more
assistance or not even needed
want more assistance and it's just being
and i think it's also being part of the
team right you know we're all in the
same boat i mean one of the things
we actually do is as a fund is we share
some of our carry with all of our
founders so all of our founders actually
get some of our carry which makes them a
part owner of the fund and actually a
fair learner of everyone else and it's
just a way of sending the message that
it's not management versus shareholders
it's not founders versus investors wow
we are all in this together this is a
journey hopefully a successful
5 6 10 15 year journey to build
transformative companies there's going
to be ups there's going to be downs it's
never a straight line there's always as
they call it the messy middle and i
think that's the the message that we
send it's the message we send by being a
sort of a part of that what you just
described from the get-go with
whatever's needed product strategy et
cetera and having sort of that one team
message and we don't do it alone we
invest with other investors we're not
usually the sole investor right it's
happened but in in the recent fund we're
generally investing great co-investors
we take a similar view on b2c smb can
add value in other ways and i think you
know to repeat it it's not just about
money anymore vcs have to be able to add
value to enable their founders
to to grow because you know to use the
word crazy again it's a little bit crazy
to start a startup right yeah read about
the great exits but the end of the day
it's you're always selling you're always
out there fundraising recruiting so you
need that support and you need that um
you know have my you need that half my
job sometimes is to just listen to
founders be able to to answers me as
though the problems they're going
through every day and be there sure so
you know you add value in different ways
and so if you're going back to the trend
that you're alluding to in the israelite
system and we're seeing these big
players alex monday and wigs and
and fiverr etc
they're going do you see do you see it
actually happening year over year in the
israeli system either with the founders
that you're meeting or with the you know
whether it's the younger founders the
older founders are we moving as an
ecosystem more towards a b to c or b to
s and b minuses that that is something
that is possible not just cyber and ai
yeah for sure i think the you know
there's still going to be and we see it
every day amazing cyber companies
amazing companies um but the amount of
first of all there's more money that's
available to to b to c and b to smb
there just wasn't that much money
available a lot of the companies that
we've led you know they they probably
wouldn't have been able to get the the
adequate fundraising if someone like us
didn't come in and leave now you're
seeing a lot more from olive to insight
they're all getting involved in this i
think we're one of the only ones that
really just only focuses on that we
don't do anything outside that but it's
coming more and more and i think as more
and more companies succeed as more and
more founders get experience and some of
these companies are now going public you
know you're they're having very large
teams that are seeing what it is like to
scale a business to these levels you'll
get more and more dual flow i mean the
amount of deals i saw in b2c five years
ago in a year is probably equal to what
i'm seeing in a month right now yeah
right and so by focusing does that mean
that you're developing a special no
specialization within the b2c or b dress
and be any specific thesis that you're
able to then take with you to your
investments or as you're helping your
israeli founders think more critically
about the global market as they're
trying to scale their business because i
guess
most of them are not selling to the
israeli market right they're selling
them
although a number one of the advantages
of investing in b2c is is you do get to
use israel as a little bit of a early
petri dish so a lot of our companies i
would say four or fiver companies first
revenue was in israel
which is unusual a lot of it has in the
old time you know you couldn't even put
the product in hebrew it didn't put the
prodigy it's not in israel so a number
of our companies are generating revenue
here and it's and it's great because it
first of all it shows the hustle shows
the ability it shows product market fit
for what at the end of the day is a very
similar market in terms of mindset than
just anywhere else and so so that's
something that for us is i think it's a
it's just another benefit of doing b2c
and smb so do you usually find that the
experimentation on on
on the patriots that we have here in
israel that's a good indicator of the of
the success later on because i my my
intuition was that the consumer behavior
is so drastically different between
where we are and where the rest of the
world is that perhaps it doesn't
actually show the right intention of
either the user acquisition or hollywood
yeah user acquisition it of course it's
a different game i think in terms of
product market fit and the value prop i
think it's a very good indication maybe
not 100 in different markets but
especially for the american market i
think it actually is a very good fit for
of course scaling it's much different
right you can do much more in israel
with less than than you can anywhere
else especially if you're israeli and it
depends on the syrup on the on the
specific product so in terms of user
acquisition and scale growth it's a
completely different ballgame but from
my point of view in terms of investing
in a team and seeing their ability to
put a product out there that people want
they're willing to pay for that that
early hustle to generate the early
revenue
that's that's important um because we
don't you know your question about this
is we have certain thesis about some
things we're very big in blockchain
crypto we look at that as the sort of
underlying layer of passion aware so we
do have nfts i think are going to be
posted a blog on that where i think nfcs
are going to be almost a layer of
of every company yeah point in the
future but we also
are truly amazed at some of the things
we see so we take an open mind and um
and want to meet entrepreneurs who are
in vienna seeing vsab are thinking
differently and are attacking a problem
a different way
for b to smb we have a slightly
simple thesis which is everything a big
company can do a small company will be
able to do and it's just about providing
them that tool promo is a great example
companies have been doing video ads for
50 years it's nothing new television ads
et cetera but smbs basically until 2016
when promo launch were unable to do that
and promo came with a different way of
doing it to enable something that's
already been done before so for beat smb
we look at things that are clear market
cases of things that have been done
before but being done in a different way
specifically to beat smb or prosumer for
consumer there's things that we're
surprised at almost every day when we
get new deal flow and different ways of
thinking
and that's what's exciting it's really
being disruptive transformative it's
transformative and what what israel is
your creative which is thinking
differently about how to tackle the
problem i love it robert take me back a
little bit to your childhood i want to
get to know you better
before you invested in avg before benson
oak
you mentioned you're big into sports
grew up in the us what really fascinates
you as a kid is it is it the financial
markets is it is it you know innovation
or
so
sports it's my it's my passion and it's
i've always been into sports from my
earliest age and one of the things i did
early on was collect sports for uh
trading cards really small cards okay
and i didn't do it to make money still i
haven't sold it i still have those cards
actually and i do i did it with my
brother in fact i've got him back into
it now and i forgot about it for years
and i recently got back into it a few
years ago when the market started to
take off and also i have kids
my kids are athletes and so i also
they're they're in their teens and i
wanted them to get into it also for the
financial aspect so i've gotten back
into it and it's even applicable to one
of my startups which will will save that
for another story but that's what so
sports for me as a kid playing sports
watching sports and now actually you
know not to be too obsessed with
investing but now major looking a lot of
things that are in sports sports tech
because now you can if i can combine
making money investing in sports and
enjoying sports that for me is just
heaven i'm done i love it and what
inspires you today in your day-to-day
work or personal life
what inspires me well you know obviously
my passion is is it's my job to to
invest into to make money for my
investors but it really is my passion i
love it i tell people all the time if
you're not doing what you love you
shouldn't do it so for me it's that's
the passionate thing but it's also a
balance right i think one of the
important things in life and some of my
my gray hair that i have is to be
balanced right not to be obsessed with
the work and and first of all do
something you enjoy but also find all
the other things that are outside work
you know for me that's family that's
sports that's hobbies and that's uh
traveling in the good old days when
we're able to do that yeah and what are
the three words we need to describe
there's three words i actually come up
with the two words i have to remember
them so one is so one is focus um i
would say i'm a very focused person i
think that's something i've also i've
not always been that way but i'm focused
on my investment thesis and i'm focused
in sort of what i want to do every day
both personally and professionally i
would say another word is well balanced
i actually use that word that it's it's
not only about work but it's about
finding that time um i'll say it because
i think it's actually useful for the
audience i'm into meditation which is
actually enabling i love balance yeah
and i learned it from pot i was in all
these podcasts and every successful
person meditated like maybe i should try
this meditation thing so for me it just
helps balance and i say the third word
is optimistic i think uh you know to
invest in startups almost by definition
you need to be optimistic you need to
believe tomorrow is going to be better
than the day before and even when
there's a problem and you just fight
through it because you believe at the
end of the day
you know things are going to be better
so i think and especially you know
frankly living in israel the middle east
you need to be optimistic right it's
what it's all about so optimism is a
word that i would
highlight robert thank you so much thank
you have enjoyed your podcast it's great
to do it myself thank you very much
you